.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998  Clemson University
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH IOD.CONF 5 "16 November 1998" "Version 1.2" "PVFS Administration"
.SH NAME
iod.conf \- iod(8) configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I iod.conf
file is the main configuration file for the
.BR iod (8)
which performs I/O for PVFS. This file specifies configuration
parameters for the daemon.
For special features see the
.BR iod (8)
manpage.

Every line consists of two fields, a 
.I selector
field and an
.I value 
field. These two fields are separated by one or more spaces or
tabs. The selector field specifies a configuration parameter 
which should be set to the value.

Lines starting with a hash mark (``#'') and empty lines are ignored.

.SH SELECTORS
The 
.I selector
field itself again consists of one of the following:
.BR port ", " user ", " group ", " rootdir ", " datadir ", " logdir ", or "
.BR debug .
Selectors are case insensitive.  If the same selector is used again, it
will override the first instance.

.B port 
specifies the port on which the iod should accept requests.

.B user
specifies the user under which the iod should run.

.B group
specifies the group under which the iod should run.

.B rootdir
gives the directory the iod should use as its rootdir.  The iod uses
.BR chroot (2)
to change to this directory before accessing files.

.B datadir
gives the directory the iod should use as its data directory.  The iod
uses
.BR chdir (2)
to change to this directory after changing the root directory.

Likewise, 
.B logdir
specifies the directory in which to store logging files with respect to
the new root directory.

.B debug
specifies a debugging level.

The 
.I value 
field gives a value to use for the configuration parameter specified by
the selector.  

.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example iod.conf file:

.IP
.nf
# IOD Configuration file, iod.conf
#

port 7001
user nobody
group nobody
rootdir /
datadir /pvfs_data
logdir /tmp
debug 0

.fi
.LP


.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.I /etc/iod.conf
Configuration file for
.B iod .

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iod (8)

.SH AUTHORS
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on
.B syslogd
manpage by Greg Wettstein
and Martin Schulze.

.SH BUGS
Probably.  Debugging level isn't used at the moment, so that's one.
