.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1998  Clemson University
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH IOD 8 "16 November 1998" "Version 1.2" "PVFS Daemons"

.SH NAME
iod \- PVFS I/O daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B iod
[\c
.BI \ config_file\fR\c
 ]
.ad


.SH DESCRIPTION 
.B iod
(I/O Daemon) is the daemon program for PVFS responsible for performing
I/O on disks for application tasks.  This daemon, together with the
.B mgr (8)
daemon, handle all aspects of access to PVFS files.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE

The iod relies on a configuration file for setting its runtime
parameters.  This file by default is 
.IR /etc/iod.conf .
An alternative
filename can be given on the command line.

The default parameters for the I/O daemon at the time this man page was
written are as follows:
port 7000, user nobody, group nobody, rootdir /, datadir /pvfs_data,
logdir /tmp, debug 0.  See
.B iod.conf (5)
for more information on configuration files.

.SH SIGNALS

On receipt of a SIGHUP signal, the I/O daemon will close all active
connections and close all open files.  It will then resume accepting and
servicing requests.

Due to the nature of the configuration process, it
is impossible for the I/O daemon to reread its configuration file and
reset its configuration completely, so this is not done.  If you wish to
have the configuration file reread, you must kill and restart the iod.

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.I /etc/iod.conf
Configuration file for
.B iod .

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iod.conf (5)
.BR mgr (8)

.SH AUTHORS
Rob Ross, Clemson University

.SH BUGS
Sure.
