.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1998  Clemson University
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH MGR 8 "16 November 1998" "Version 1.2" "PVFS Daemons"

.SH NAME
mgr \- PVFS manager daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B mgr
.RB [ " \-d " ]
.RB [ " \-r " ]
.RB [ " \-t " 
.I timeout
]
.ad


.SH DESCRIPTION 
.B mgr
(Manager Daemon) is the daemon program for PVFS responsible for
authenticating
file access and handling file creation and removal.  This daemon,
together with the
.B iod (8)
daemon, handle all aspects of access to PVFS files.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-d"
Turns on debug mode.  Using this the daemon will not
.BR fork (2)
to put itself in the background or redirect its output to a log file.
Instead all output will go to the terminal.
.TP
.B "\-r"
Turns on pseudo-random base node assignment.  Rather than using a
default base node of 0, a random base node number will be assigned.
This is particularly useful for groups creating large numbers of small
to medium sized files.
.TP
.BI "\-t " "timeout"
Specifies the
.BR select (2)
loop timeout for the manager.  This determines how often the manager
will sync with the I/O daemons in the absence of activity, and should
not need to be set.

.SH SIGNALS

On receipt of a SIGHUP signal, the mgr daemon will restart itself after
sending a signal to all I/O daemons to clear out any connections it has
started.

The manager will exit cleanly on receipt of SIGTERM.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iod (8)

.SH AUTHORS
Rob Ross, Clemson University

.SH BUGS
Sure.
