.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.TH PVFS_CHOWN 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_chown, pvfs_fchown \- change ownership of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pvfs_chown(const char *" path ", uid_t " owner ", gid_t " group );
.br
.BI "int pvfs_fchown(int " fd ", uid_t " owner ", gid_t " group );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The owner of the file specified by
.I path
or by
.I fd
is changed.  Only the super-user may change the owner of a file.  The owner
of a file may change the group of the file to any group of which that owner
is a member.  The super-user may change the group arbitrarily.  For
files that are not on PVFS file systems, the 
.B chown
system call is used instead to perform the requested operation.

If the
.I owner
or
.I group
is specified as \-1, then that ID is not changed.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately. See the 
.BR chown "(2)
manpage for information on 
.I errno
values in the event of an error.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pvfs_chmod "(3), " chown "(2)"
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on 
.B chown
manpage by Drew Eckhardt

.SH BUGS
Maybe.
