.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.TH PVFS_CHMOD 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_chmod, pvfs_fchmod \- change permissions of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.sp
.BI "int pvfs_chmod(const char *" path ", mode_t " mode );
.br
.BI "int pvfs_fchmod(int " fildes ", mode_t " mode );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The mode of the file given by
.I path
or referenced by
.I filedes
is changed.

Modes are specified by
.IR or'ing
the following:
.RS
.sp
.TP 1.0i
S_ISUID
04000 set user ID on execution
.TP
S_ISGID
02000 set group ID on execution
.TP
S_ISVTX
01000 sticky bit
.TP
S_IRUSR (S_IREAD)
00400 read by owner
.TP
S_IWUSR (S_IWRITE)
00200 write by owner
.TP
S_IXUSR (S_IEXEC)
00100 execute/search by owner
.TP
S_IRGRP
00040 read by group
.TP
S_IWGRP
00020 write by group
.TP
S_IXGRP
00010 execute/search by group
.TP
S_IROTH
00004 read by others
.TP
S_IWOTH
00002 write by others
.TP
S_IXOTH
00001 execute/search by others
.sp
.RE

The effective UID of the process must be zero or must match the owner of
the file.

The effective UID or GID must be appropriate for setting execution bits.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately. See the 
.BR chmod "(2) "
manpage for information on
.I errno
values in the presence of errors.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pvfs_open "(3), " pvfs_chown "(3), " pvfs_stat "(3), "
.BR chmod "(2) "
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on original
.B chmod
manpage by Drew Eckhardt
.SH BUGS
Maybe.
