.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.\"
.TH PVFS_CLOSE 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_close \- close a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int close(int " fd );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pvfs_close
closes a file descriptor, so that it no longer refers to any file and
may be reused. If the file is not a PVFS file, the 
.B close
system call is used to close the file.
.PP
If
.I fd
is the last copy of a particular file descriptor the resources
associated with it are freed;
if the descriptor was the last reference to a file which has been
removed using
.B pvfs_unlink
the file is deleted by the PVFS manager.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BR pvfs_close
returns zero on success, or \-1 if an error occurred.  See the 
.BR close "(2)
manpage for information on 
.I errno
values.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR close "(2), " pvfs_open "(3), " fcntl "(2), " shutdown (2),
.BR pvfs_unlink "(3), " fclose (3).
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on
.B close
manpage by Drew Eckhardt, Michael Haardt, and Ian Jackson
.SH BUGS
Maybe.
