.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:39:26 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Sep 26 21:47:21 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" and once more on 960413.
.\"
.TH PVFS_FCNTL 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_fcntl \- manipulate file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.sp
.BI "int pvfs_fcntl(int " fd ", int " cmd );
.BI "int pvfs_fcntl(int " fd ", int " cmd ", long " arg );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pvfs_fcntl
performs one of various miscellaneous operations on
.IR fd ,
or would, except that
.B pvfs_fcntl
does nothing on PVFS files.  For non-PVFS files, however, it will use the
.B fcntl
system call to perform the requested operation.  See the 
.BR fcntl "(2)
manpage for more information.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pvfs_ioctl (3),
.BR fcntl (2)
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on
.B fcntl
manpage by Drew Eckhardt, Michael Haardt, and Ian Jackson.
.SH BUGS
It doesn't work for PVFS files at all.
