.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.TH PVFS_UNLINK 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_unlink \- delete a name and possibly the file it refers to
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pvfs_unlink(const char *" pathname );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pvfs_unlink
deletes a name from the filesystem. If that name was the last link to a
file and no processes have the file open, the file metadata is deleted
by the manager, and the space it was using is made available for reuse
on the I/O nodes.

If the name was the last link to a file but any processes still have
the file open the file will remain in existence until the last file
descriptor referring to it is closed.

If the name referred to a symbolic link the link is removed.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately. See the 
.BR unlink "(2)"
manpage for information on
.I errno
values.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR unlink "(2), " pvfs_rename "(3), " pvfs_open "(3), " pvfs_rmdir (3),
.BR " rm "(1), " unlink (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on
.B unlink
manpage by Drew Eckhardt and Ian Jackson
.SH BUGS
Anything dealing with links is unlikely to work correctly.
