.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.TH PVFS_DUP 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_dup, pvfs_dup2 \- duplicate a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pvfs_dup(int " oldfd );
.BI "int pvfs_dup2(int " oldfd ", int " newfd );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pvfs_dup " and " pvfs_dup2
create a copy of the file descriptor
.IR oldfd .

The old and new descriptors may be used interchangeably. They share
locks, file position pointers and flags; for example, if the file
position is modified by using
.B pvfs_lseek
on one of the descriptors, the position is also changed for the other.


.B pvfs_dup
uses the lowest-numbered unused descriptor for the new descriptor.

.B pvfs_dup2
.RI "makes " newfd " be the copy of " oldfd ", closing " newfd
first if necessary.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BR pvfs_dup " and " pvfs_dup2
return the new descriptor, or \-1 if an error occurred (in which case,
.I errno
is set appropriately).  See the 
.BR dup "(2)
manpage for more information on 
.I errno
values in the event of an error.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR " pvfs_open "(3), " dup "(2).
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on
.B dup
manpage by Drew Eckhardt, Michael Haardt, and Ian Jackson.
