.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.TH PVFS_MKDIR 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_mkdir \- create a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pvfs_mkdir(const char *" pathname ", mode_t " mode );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pvfs_mkdir
attempts to create a directory named
.IR pathname .
If the file system on which the directory is to be created is not a PVFS
one, the
.B mkdir
system call is used to perform the requested operation.

.I mode
specifies the permissions to use. It is modified by the process's
.BR umask
in the usual way: the permissions of the created file are
.BR "(mode & ~umask)" .

The newly created directory will be owned by the effective uid of the
process.  If the directory containing the file has the set group id
bit set, or if the filesystem is mounted with BSD group semantics, the
new directory will inherit the group ownership from its parent;
otherwise it will be owned by the effective gid of the process.

If the parent directory has the set group id bit set then so will the
newly created directory.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR mkdir
returns zero on success, or -1 if an error occurred (in which case,
.I errno
is set appropriately). See the 
.BR mkdir "(2)
manpage for information on 
.I errno
values in the event of an error.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Nothing
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pvfs_unlink "(3), " pvfs_open "(3), " pvfs_stat "(3), " umask (2),
.BR mkdir "(2).
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on 
.B mkdir
manpage by Drew Eckhardt, Michael Haardt, and Ian Jackson.
.SH BUGS
Owners and permissions might not follow UNIX semantics with respect to
effective UIDs and group id bits.
