.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.TH PVFS_LSEEK 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_lseek \- reposition read/write file offset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "off_t pvfs_lseek(int " fildes ", off_t " offset ", int " where );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pvfs_lseek
function repositions the offset of the file descriptor
.I fildes
to the argument
.I offset
according to the directive
.IR  where .
The argument
.I fildes
must be an open file descriptor.
.B Lseek
repositions the file pointer
.I fildes
as follows:
.RS
.sp
If
.I where
is
.BR SEEK_SET ,
the offset is set to
.I offset
bytes.

If
.I where
is
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
the offset is set to its current location plus
.I offset
bytes.

If
.I where
is
.BR SEEK_END ,
the offset is set to the size of the file plus
.I offset
bytes.
.RE

The
.B pvfs_lseek
function allows the file offset to be set beyond the end of the existing
end-of-file of the file. If data is later written at this point, subsequent
reads of the data in the gap return bytes of zeros (until data is actually
written into the gap).

Note that there is some added complexity in PVFS with regards to seeking.
Specifically, the locations specified via
.B pvfs_lseek
refer to a location in the current
.I partition
for the file descriptor.  This means that some extra thought should be
taken when determining seek offsets.

.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion,
.B pvfs_lseek
returns the resulting offset location in the partition as measured in
bytes from the beginning of the partition.  Otherwise, a value of \-1 is
returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.  See the 
.BR lseek "(2)
manpage for 
.I errno
values in the event of an error.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dup "(2), " open "(2), " fseek (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on
.B ioctl
manpage from BSD manpages.
.SH BUGS
I dumped the use of whence; it's silly.  Yes, there might be bugs.
