.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.TH PVFS_RMDIR 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_rmdir \- delete a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pvfs_rmdir(const char *" pathname );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pvfs_rmdir
deletes a directory, which must be empty.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately. See the 
.BR rmdir "(2)"
manpage for
.I errno
values in the presence of errors.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rename "(2), " mkdir "(2), " chdir "(2), " unlink (2),
.BR pvfs_unlink "(3), "
.BR rmdir "(1), " rm (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on
.B rmdir
manpage by Drew Eckhardt, Michael Haardt, and Ian Jackson
.SH BUGS
Maybe.
