.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.\"
.TH PVFS_STAT 3 "1 December 1997"  "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_stat, pvfs_fstat, pvfs_lstat \- get file status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pvfs_stat(const char *" file_name ", struct stat *" buf );
.br
.BI "int pvfs_fstat(int " filedes ", struct stat *" buf );
.br
.BI "int pvfs_lstat(const char *" file_name ", struct stat *" buf );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These functions return information about the specified file.  You do
not need any access rights to the file to get this information but you
need search rights to all directories named in the path leading to the
file.
.PP
.B stat
stats the file pointed to by 
.I file_name
and fills in
.IR buf .

.B lstat
is identical to
.BR stat ,
only the link itself is stated, not the file that is obtained by tracing
the links.

.B fstat
is identical to stat, only the open file pointed to by 
.I filedes
(as returned by
.BR pvfs_open (2))
is stated in place of 
.IR file_name .

.PP
They all return a
.I stat
structure, which is declared in the 
.BR stat "(2)"
manpage.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.  See the 
.B stat
manpage for information on
.I errno
values.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR stat "(2), " chmod "(2), " chown "(2), " readlink "(2), " utime (2)

.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on
.B stat
manpage by Drew Eckhardt and Nicolai Langfeldt
