.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Clemson University, All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"
.TH PVFSTAB 5 "8 November 1999" "PVFS Configuration"
.SH NAME
pvfstab \- static information about PVFS file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <fstab.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.B /etc/pvfstab
contains descriptive information about the various file systems.
.B pvfstab
is read by the PVFS client library in order to ascertain the location of
PVFS file system.  It should exist and be readable on all machines on
which PVFS clients will run.  It is up to the system administrator to
install and maintain this configuration file.
Each file system
is described on a separate line; fields on each line are separated by tabs
or spaces just as in a standard
.B fstab
file.

The first field,
.RI ( fs_spec ),
describes the remote PVFS file system to be mounted.  The host name
specified refers to the manager host.

The second field,
.RI ( fs_file ),
describes the mount point for the file system.  In the case of the client
library this is simply a directory name, which should exist, which will
be used as a placeholder for where the file system WOULD be mounted.

The third field,
.RI ( fs_vfstype ),
describes the type of the filesystem.  This must be
.B pvfs
in order for the pvfs parsing code to accept the entry.

The fourth field,
.RI ( fs_mntops ),
describes the mount options associated with the file system.  The only
option used by PVFS at the time this page was written is the
.I port
option, which specifies the port for the manager.  This should always be
included and should normally be set to 3000.

The fifth and sixth fields, which are normally used for determining when
file systems should be dumped and checked, are not used at this time and
should be set to 0.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/pvfstab
.SH BUGS
Probably.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR " mount "(8), " fstab "(5), " swapon "(8), " nfs (5)
.SH HISTORY
The
.B fstab
file format appeared in 4.0BSD.
