.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is copyright (c) 1997 Clemson University.
.\"
.\" Written by Rob Ross and Matt Cettei.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" The author(s) assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or
.\" for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Contact:  Rob Ross    rbross@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\"           Matt Cettei mcettei@parl.eng.clemson.edu
.\" 
.TH PVFS_RENAME 3 "2 December 1997" "PVFS calls"
.SH NAME
pvfs_rename \- change the name or location of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pvfs_rename(const char *" oldpath ", const char *" newpath );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pvfs_rename
renames a file, moving it between directories if required.  If the file
is not a PVFS file, the
.B rename
system call is used to perform the requested operation.

If
.I newpath
already exists it will be unlinked before
.I oldpath
is moved.  This is
.I not
consistent with standard
.B rename
operation, and may be corrected at a later time.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.  See the 
.BR rename "(2)
manpage for information on
.I errno
values in the presence of errors.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR link "(2), " unlink "(2), " symlink "(2), " mv "(1), " link (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Ross, Clemson University

Based on 
.B rename
manpage by Drew Eckhardt, Michael Haardt, and Ian Jackson
.SH BUGS
Problems may still exist with respect to renaming files when 
.I newpath
already exists and is open by some process.

If
.I newpath
exists but the operation fails for some reason or the system crashes,
.B pvfs_rename
will probably have deleted newpath.

Using
.B pvfs_rename
to move files between PVFS and other file systems is also not currently
supported.
